                              STATEMENT OF FACTS
THE PARTIES
"Dr. Jack Miliband is a highly renowned expert in tropical diseases, and citizen of"
"Frugalia. He has worked in the pharmaceutical business for over 20 years, and been"
resident in Frugalia for over 12.
Health Services Ltd (“HSL”) is the largest pharmaceutical company in India. It is a
"public company, registered in New Delhi. HSL has two wholly-owned subsidies, HS"
Holdings Corporation (“HSC”) and Frugalian Health Products Ltd (“FHPL”). HSC is
"registered in Vaduz, and FHPL is registered in Frugalia City."
Vikram Bhatia is the long-standing CEO of HSL. He owns a significant stake as
equity in HSL.
"THE INTERFACE BETWEEN HSL, HSC AND FHPL"
HSC and FHPL were incorporated solely with the object of avoiding tax and evading
"the jurisdiction of Frugalian courts. HSC, in cooperated in the tax-haven of"
"Liechtenstein, served as a shell company, and had no other function besides"
channeling money between FHPL and HSL. This was done to shield HSL from direct
"international with HSL, and thereby keep them out of their jurisdiction. FHPL ran no"
other business but that of HSL. All the board of directors were appointed by HSL
(through the shell HSC). Funds for rent and other capital expenses were paid in their
"entirety by HSL, through HSC, and under various guises. A nominal 0.1% was given"
to FHPL as commission from HSL. FHPL did not have any other income. HSL
exercised “effective control” over FHPL.
THE AGREEMENTS
"HSL obtained an exclusive contract to market certain drugs in Frugalia, in late 2010."
With a view to strengthen their R&D department to meet the needs of this new
"market, they approached Dr. Miliband. Miliband was willing to work for HSL if two"
"specific conditions were met: First, that he was offered an equity package in HSL,"
"and Second, that he obtained a pension facility with equaling amount of protection as"
"the one he currently possessed, under birth law. Mr. Bhatia agreed to the first term,"
"and falsely represented that there was an identical pension scheme under Indian law,"
                                                                                      5

"which Dr Miliband could avail of. Based on these assurances, two contacts were"
formed:
i) An employment contract between HSL and Dr. Miliband. (“EA”)
ii) A Share Purchase Agreement between Mr. Bhatia and Dr. Miliband. (“SPA)
Both these contracts were struck on the same day. Notably:
The employment contract had a termination clause stating that HSL may terminate
"Dr. Miliband either by giving him a 12-month notice, or by paying him £1 million."
"The Share Purchase Agreement was for purchase of an 8% stake in HSL, worth £4.5"
"million. However, they were sold to Mr. Miliband for £5 million. The SPA also has a"
proviso (clause 7) giving Mr. Bhatia the right to first refusal. This clause is suspect
under the Companies act.
THE DISPUTES
"After a period of increasing disharmony, on September 30, 2015, Mr. Bhatia called"
"Dr. Miliband into his office and summarily dismissed him. However, the accounts"
"department, unfortunately, missed out the payment required for such a dismissal. This"
"led to Dr. Miliband believing wrongly that he had not, in fact, been terminated. Due to"
"this belief, Dr. Miliband refused another job he was offered soon after. On 19th"
"December, however, an ordinance was enacted, barring the continued employment of"
certain foreign citizens in Indian pharmaceutical companies. When Mr. Bhatia heard
"of this, he sought to take advantage of the situation. He instructed the accounts"
department to withhold the £1 million payment meant for Dr. Milibands summary
"dismissal on the 30th of September. Instead, Mr. Bhatia sent Dr. Miliband a letter"
"claiming that the contract had never been terminated, but had now become frustrated"
"by a government ordinance. HSL, he regretfully stated, would therefore not make any"
payment to him. [“wrongful termination dispute”]
"Dejected, Dr. Miliband had to no choice but to leave the country, and therefore sought"
"to sell his shares in HSL. Since his purchase, HSL share prices had plummeted, and"
"his share was now only worth £700,000 in the market. However, Dr. Miliband was"
"offered £1 million by a London Bank, for a limited period of 24 hours. Not wanting to"
"miss such a chance, and believing his relations with HSL and Mr. Bhatia to be over,"
"Dr. Miliband went ahead and sold the shares. HSL contends that their competitor,"
"Bruton, brought these shares and consequently, HSL’s partners in a government"
                                                                                      6

consortium (Medicamento and Versus) opted to invoke a specific clause in the
"consortium agreement, which allowed them to remove HSL in such instances"
(When a rival acquired a 10% or greater stake in one of the companies). Due to this
"removal, HSL is said to have suffered losses of £2 million. HSL demanded the sum be"
paid for by Mr. Miliband. [“SPA Dispute”]
"Mr. Miliband’s solicitors discovered, while analyzing his disputes, that Mr. Bhatia"
"had made a false representation regarding pension schemes in India, when Dr."
Miliband first agreed to work with him. [“Dispute arising from misrepresentation”]
"Keeping this in mind, Dr. Bhatia instituted proceedings in the Frugalian Commercial"
Court [“FCC”]
SUITS
Dr. Bhatia filed two suits before the FCC:
    i)      Against HSL- Claiming the £1 million as agreed sum/ damages for breach
"            of contract, along with unpaid salary for 3 months;"
    ii)     Against Mr. Bhatia- Claiming damages for negligent misrepresentation.
"Both of these suits were served on Mr. Bhatia in person, while he was in Frugalia due"
to a faulty aircraft. Mr. Bhatia as well as a representative of HSL made an appearance
"before the FCC in the matter, albeit only to contest jurisdiction. The court upheld its"
"own jurisdiction, applying its civil procedure rules under the principle of “lex fori”."
"Further, the court extensively examined evidence on either side, and finally concluded"
as follows:
"    i)      HSL liable to pay £ 1 million as an agreed sum/ as damages, and unpaid"
            salary for period between 30th September and 19th December
    ii)     Mr. Bhatia liable to pay £4.5 million as damages for negligent
"            misrepresentation, with the amount being calculated as of the date of"
            dismissal.
"These Judgments attained finality under Frugalian law. Next, Dr. Miliband filed suits"
"before the Delhi High Court, seeking enforcement of Forrest I & II under section 13"
"of the Civil Procedure Code, or alternatively, on merits. Meanwhile, HSL instituted a"
"Civil Suit for breach of the SPA against Dr. Miliband. In the first instance, a single"
judge heard all three suits. He produced the following findings:
"    i)      Forrest I is conclusive. Alternatively, Dr. Miliband is entitled to the"
            termination payment or unpaid salary.
                                                                                      7

"    ii)    Forrest II is conclusive.    Alternatively, Dr. Miliband is entitled to £4"
           million as damages.
    iii)   Clause 7 of the SPA is enforceable; Dr. Miliband is therefore liable for its
           breach.
"All these decisions were appealed before the Division bench, which pronounced the"
following:
"    i)     Forrest I is not conclusive as, among other reasons, the FCC was not a"
           court of competent jurisdiction with regard to HSL; The EA was frustrated
           on 19th December and therefore Dr. Miliband is not entitled to any
           damages.
    ii)    Forrest II is not conclusive as the FCC was not a court of competent
           jurisdiction with regard to Mr. Bhatia; The measure of damages being
"           £500,000 need not be awarded as Mr. Bhatia’s misrepresentation did not"
           materialize into any real loss.
"    iii)   Clause 7 of the SPA is not enforceable as, First, it was not incorporated in"
"           the articles of Association, and Second because HSL is a public company."
"           In any case, the damages are too remote and therefore not recoverable."
Both parties sought leave under Article 136 of the Indian constitution to appeal to the
Supreme Court. The honourable Court at the admission hearing granted leave.
                                                                                      8

